Nothing's like squats. You can do leg
presses, but why?
Why do inferior movements? Why do a
movement that looks good that produces
hardly any exhaust? I mean, there's a
reason people don't squat. It's hard.
It's hard. Okay, that video has got me
thinking. I posted that on social media
on Instagram and it went pretty viral.
And the reason why it went viral is
because it defies many people's belief
systems. A lot of people nowadays are
saying squats are bad for leg
development. Yet, we have someone like
Tom Platz, who has arguably the best
quadriceps in bodybuilding history,
swearing that squats are the king of
exercises. And not only that the squats
are the best, that the leg press, the
way that he speaks about it is as though
the leg presses are a terrible exercise
because they're easy, they look showy,
and save them for someone else.
Now, here's the thing. I love a squat.
You know that. I'm a powerlifter and
it's the main exercise of my sport.
But when it comes to building muscle, I
understand something a little bit
different. And I study, if you haven't
noticed, I study people's body positions
and their proportions and their levels
of mobility and the techniques that they
use to perform various movements and the
results that they achieve because of the
way that they move. And when you look at
someone like Tom Plattz and the way that
he does his squats, you look at it and
when you understand what we're looking
for, his technique is perfect for
quadriceps development. Some of the
things that we look for is he has
long torso, short femurs. So that upper
thigh bone, you know, as opposed to
people with long femurs that complain
that squats a bad exercise, it's like,
yeah, it is a bad exercise for that
individual. But for someone with short
femurs, the body position that you see
Tom Plax getting in, I need to use
equipment to be able to achieve. So
what's that equipment I need to use? I
call this a stiletto squat. It's a heel
elevation where I elevate my heels so
that I can sit in this bottom position
where my hamstrings press up against my
calf. Tom Platz doesn't need any special
footwear. Like when he just sits on the
ground, like that's the position he's
able to achieve because he has the
perfect proportions. I'd say that I'm
kind of somewhere in between. I don't
think that I've got long femurss or
short femurs. I'd say I'm somewhere in
between. Then you get people with long
femurs and short torsos. Those are the
ones that typically fold in half when
they do a squat, you know, and that's
how they look when they do a squat. And
there's very little knee bend and they
need to fold so far forward to balance
that barbell on their back so it lines
up with their midoot. So that's how you
achieve balance with a squat. When you
have short femurs, you can be more
upright and sit ass the grass. When you
have long femurss, you cannot. However,
I don't want to say you cannot. You can,
but you need to do what I'm doing, which
is elevate the hell out of your heels
and understand how you can manipulate
your stance in the bar position so that
you can make the squat a good quad
builder. Like that's how you want to
look to make sure it's a good quad
builder. So, come on side side view
to make sure that you're building quads.
Hamstring pressing against calf. So
that's taking the knee joint through
full range of motion flexion, which is a
full stretch of the quads and extension
versus
people that can't bend their knees as
much. I'm bending I've got a more acute
hip angle, which means I'm using a lot
more hip joint and less knee joint
because my knees aren't bent as much.
Right? So, those that can achieve kind
of like this this bottom position in a
squat are typically the ones that squat
and build good quadriceps. And those
that cannot usually say like people that
squat like this will say squats are bad
for quad development. They're kind of
both true, but you have to understand
they're kind of also both not entirely
true. What I'm going to do today is I'm
going to talk about the pros and cons of
each. I don't think that leg presses are
bad. I think that the combination and
this goes with everything. Every time
you hear people say what's better, you
know, squats or machines or free weights
versus machines or isolations versus
compound or high bar versus low bar or
whatever it is, whenever there's a
comparison, usually I'm sure you'll find
an example where this is not true, but
most times when there's a comparison
like that, the answer is a combination
of the two. I love a squat and I think
it's crucial. I also love a leg press.
And I think combining the two is
probably one of the smartest things that
you can do. Whether your goal is
building quads or building strength or
or whatever, they're just great
exercises for whatever reason, building
knee health, hip health, bone density,
all of those great benefits associated
with building strength and health and
longevity and all of those things. So,
what I'm going to do today is I'm going
to show you my leg session. And while I
do my leg session, I'm going to talk
about the techniques that I use to build
a certain muscle or whether it's to
build strength or the way that I
position my body so that you can have a
better understanding of how you can get
the most out of your leg training.
Starting off with my high bar stiletto
squat. You've probably, if you followed
me for a while, you've probably seen me
do this exercise before. Excuse my
shoulders. I've got very bad shoulder
mobility.
This is what Tom Platz looks like
without a heel elevation. So, he's
able to achieve that depth and that not
just the depth, but that upright torso
position.
That's what you need. You can go really,
really deep, but then you're leaning
really far forward. The further forward
you lean, the more your hips come into
play. So, the more upright you are, the
less your hips are on. The less your
hips are on, the more the other muscles
have to work. the other muscles being
quadriceps. So Tom Plattz achieves that
position and same with if you ever have
a look at the the best Olympic
weightlifterss in the world, they have
those proportions as well. They are
built for the sport. Being upright and
having great mobility for the in the
hips and the ankles being in this
position is an advantage for catching
huge weights overhead, which is a
cleaning jerk and the snatch. And as a
result, go and have a look at all the
best weightlifters. The best
weightlifters have those proportions and
they all have very very very
well-developed quads. And a lot of
people say, "Yeah, squats are good for
quads because look at the best
weightlifters." It's like, "Yeah, is it
that they're doing squats or is it
they're doing squats with those perfect
proportions. You need both." Anyhow, if
you don't have those proportions like
me, that's what this video is about. I'm
going to teach you how to manipulate
your body as well as how to use
different type of equipment and setup so
that you can build muscle, build
strength, and get the absolute most out
of leg training. So,
I'm going to do another set of this. I
like to warm up properly. And for me,
warming up properly means repeating sets
until I feel comfortable.
See this hill heel elevation
I prefer a plate than
than those squat boards when I use a
squat board which I have like they're
good. However, the difference between
the squat board is this or slant board
whatever you call it. It's pointing in
that direction, which means for me to
use it, I have to have my feet straight,
which which kind of works, but my feet
don't really want to bend that much
straight. I want to push my knees out
slightly and therefore point my toes out
slightly, however you do it. Now, if I
have my toes out on this slant board,
which is pointing straight, my ankles
are caving in. Do you get it? I don't
want my ankles to cave in. I want to be
stacked and aligned. Whereas when I use
a plate,
the roundness of the of the plate allows
me to angle my feet and maintain that
alignment so that I can have my knees
out, which is where the hip joint
naturally wants to go
without my ankles caving in. So when I
do this heel elevated squat, I
definitely prefer the plate over the
slant board. All right. What I'll do now
is I'm just going to go in 20 kg jumps.
So, my warmups are the same as always. I
start with an empty barbell, then I go
60 kg, and then plus 20, plus 20, plus
20, plus 20. And then the more the
weight, the the heavier the weight, the
less the reps. So, when I do empty
barbell, I did like two sets of 10. Then
I did two sets of I don't even know how
many reps I did on the 60 kg. And then
I'll get to a point where I'm just doing
single single single single. And the
objective today is to work up to 200 kg
on a stiletto squat.
You know, I think three reps is
achievable. I think it'll be hard, but I
think it's achievable. And that's what
the goal is. 200 kg for three reps. But
then I'm going to show you another squat
technique which is you know part of my
program is and the way that I train
everybody is I split the squats up into
two categories. When I say squats I call
it the squat pattern and a leg press and
a hack squat and a pendulum squat are
part of that squat pattern. And the two
different patterns that I categorize
them in is a knee dominant squat pattern
which is what I'm doing now and a hip
dominant squat pattern which is what
I'll always use you know as balanced as
an amount as possible. So, if I do, you
know, the total volume of five total
sets in a week of quad dominant, I'll do
five total sets of hip dominance. So,
it's a balanced amount of hip developing
strength and knee developing strength.
And I'm going to do that with the
barbell squats. And then after that, I'm
going to show you how I would do the
same thing with a leg press. Uh, next
set, 80 kg.
A common thought with this exercise that
a lot of people mention when they watch
me doing it is, "Oh, if I did that, my
knees would explode and all of these
things."
Now, here's what you have to understand.
If all I did was shallower squat my
whole life, like low bar squats only,
and I never challenged my knee joint
through that extreme end range of
motion, they would probably be
incredibly weak in that position. And if
I tried to match the weight with my low
bar squats and this high bar stiletto
squat, it probably would aggravate my
knees. But that's not what I do and it's
not what I've done. Like everything, if
you're unfamiliar with a new exercise,
start light and gradually build. It's a
totally different exercise. And
actually, that's something that I'm
going to do is if I work up to whatever
weight that I'll do with a stiletto
squat, I'm going to shift it over to a
low bar squat so that you can see the
strength discrepancy.
So, I'll do the same weight for stiletto
and low bar, and you'll be able to
compare the strength difference. So,
does it hurt the knees? Well, it would
if you went all out on the first
session, but if you gradually build
strength in that area, uh not only does
it not hurt the knees, but it
strengthens the knees so that you don't
run into problems.
All
right, top set time
200. 100. It's funny cuz my videographer
said that looks easy.
I'm sure it does, but it doesn't feel
that way. So, for me, it's kind of like
what a lot of people look at is the
position. I'm holding the position
nicely, which translates to, oh, that
must be easy. But actually, I'm spending
a lot of energy to make sure that I
don't change technique. So, I stay nice
and upright and really focus on driving
with my quads. It's very easy to kind of
go like, oh, you know, lift, let your
hips come up so you can use your strong
back and hips,
but that's using wrong muscles. So, the
more upright you are, the more you're
forced to use your quadriceps. So,
anyway, um whether it's easy or not, I
don't know. I'm kind of like numb to
that. It feels hard, but whether I can
do it or not, I know I'll get 200 for
the first rep, but the goal is to get
two more reps after that.
So, I think I may need a little bit of
music as motivation
because
it's going to be hard.
Okay, three reps.
I'll admit it, that last rep, I bitched
out on the pause. I felt a bit of a loss
of balance. I came forward, so I was
like, whoa.
So I kind of panicked a little bit which
happens and then when it came up
uh it actually came up very strong.
Let's have a look.
Good form.
Little bit of you know like tipping
forward slightly. Felt a bit off
balance. That's where I lost lost
confidence and then I bitched out on the
pause on the third rep, but then it came
up easy. So I looked back, it's like,
"Ah, you didn't have to [__] out on the
pause. You'd have got that. Whatever.
Fine. Still." Anyhow, so for me, my
objective was to have more repetitions
in reserve. My objective of an exercise
like this is to not take it to fail
because you know heavy loads with low
reps and you know taking your joints
through maximum ranges of motion like
that like every tissue has a limit
capacity and that's how things break is
you take them beyond their limit
capacity. So my objective is to not take
it even to its capacity. Leave
repetitions in reserve for these
exercises.
This is for strength development. So,
you know, I know this whole thing is
about to plat and leg development. So,
this I'm doing it for I'm a powerlifter.
I I focus on strength mainly, but I also
want to build muscles. And it's not as
if that doesn't stimulate muscle growth.
But something that I will mention about
the difference between machines and free
weights is that balance thing that just
happened. What won't happen in my leg
press or if I did a hack or any of those
machines. So, that's one of the
advantages of a leg press.
any of those machines is you don't have
to focus on the balance. So there a lot
of my energy went towards the balance
and that's energy taken away from you
know targeting my quadriceps. Does that
make sense?
So that's where you have an advantage.
Like my bias is towards squats. I love
that Tom Plattz made that statement that
squats are better. I think they're
better better for me but maybe not
better for you know all objectives and
all people. So, in that instance, that
was not the best way to build muscle. I
didn't take the movement to fail with
heavy loads. I don't recommend taking
those movements to fail. And
I think it's an I still think it has a
great purpose. I think that was
excellent for skill, excellent for
building quad strength and teaching my
body how to maintain technique, which is
skill. Now,
I'm going to show you the difference
between that and when I do a low bar
squat, which is if someone came to me
and said, um, you know, is a low bar
squat, you know, I'm I'm my objective is
to build massive quads, and they showed
me a squat, which is what I'm about to
show you, the low bar squat with a hip
dominant stance. I'd look at it and say,
love the exercise, but not for your
goal. If your goal is to build quads,
it's like, that'll build some quads, but
it's not the best. That's a hip dominant
squat, which is what I'm going to show
you. That's how you use your strong
hips. The more you use your hips, the
less you use your quads. It is a good
way of building hip strength. It's an
excellent way of building hip strength.
It's an excellent way of building bone
strength, core strength, balance,
coordination,
sprint strength, jump height strength,
all athletic performance, you know, in
combination with other exercises as
well, of course. So, if you want to jump
high, don't just rely on a squat. do
squats to build those specific muscles
that you're using in jumping, but then
make sure you're combining it with jump
work, right? Your explosive work, your
plyometric training. This complements
the main work, but it is not the main
work. Anyway, I'm happy I got that. I'm
happy I got that. I haven't touched that
weight with a stiletto variation in a
very long time, but now I have. And I
look at back and it's like, you silly
boy, you should have paused the last
rep. It would have been a lot cooler if
you did. Uh, whatever. I didn't become
weaker because I didn't do that. That is
just like a little bit of a lesson
learned. Anyway, I'm going to go and do
some low bar squats and show you the
difference in body position and talk to
you about the difference that it has on
my strength development and how it
builds my muscles around my body.
>> Before you go,
>> yeah,
>> how would you put these together in a
program or like a longterm progress
together?
Okay. Now, in this program and quite
often, I do
low bar squat and and a stiletto squat
within the same session. But a lot of
the times I I usually don't recommend
it. And it depends on how much volume
you're doing. So, here's the thing. A
lot of the times when I program for
someone, I'll only do like one barbell
squat pattern and then the accessories
will be something easier. So, if it's a
barbell squat and you're going really,
really heavy, that's hugely demanding.
So, I typically don't like to go
demanding exercise after demanding
exercise, but in this instance, I'm
doing a demonstration for you guys, but
I'm also minimizing how many sets. So,
if it wasn't a video for you guys, last
week I did this for two top sets and
then I did one back down set with low
bar. So, really, really low volume. So,
in many instances, if I was to program,
most people wouldn't just do one or two
sets. I do. And a lot of the times for
my elite level lifters, I only
prescribe, you know, one to three top
sets of your big barbell movements
because doing more than that can be
hugely fatiguing. Not saying it can't be
done. And I bet you most of you at home
would probably look at one or two sets
of an exercise and go that's not enough.
It can be enough. I'll tell you that.
That's a putting a long story short. It
can be enough especially for high level
lifters.
But I would say the most optimal way
would be to do about two sets, two to
three sets, you know, one to three sets
of your main barbell movements and then
your secondary exercises. So let's just
say I was doing a good session. That's,
you know, one to three sets over here.
And then I'd probably go straight over
to a leg press, a hip dominant style leg
press, so that I'm combining or using
exercises that complement each other. A
quad dominant movement followed by a hip
dominant movement. Now, on the flip side
of that, if I was to start the session,
which I quite often do, with a low bar
squat, which is hip dominant, I'd do low
bar squats for one to three top sets,
and then my accessory exercises would be
a quadricep dominant secondary movement,
which I'll show you the differences in
foot position for the leg press, so that
you can determine whether you're doing
hips or quads. And that's how I would
typically program for those. But the
fact is the amount of times people say,
"Can I do this in my program?" Whatever
it is, and I'll often say, "Yeah, you
can." Like there's ways of doing two
squat patterns. So the way that I'm
doing two squat patterns in the same
session is low volume on each and
leaving repetitions in reserve. And it's
good and making sure they complement
each other.
So to answer your question, this is kind
of one of those things where it gets
hard to say, you know, to give an
absolute answer and say there's only one
way of doing things. The fact is, yes,
you can do a low bar squat and a
stiletto squat in the same session, but
they're two difficult exercises. And
whenever you're factoring in two
difficult exercises, make sure you're
managing fatigue at the same time. So,
don't do a huge amount of volume on
each. And don't do a huge amount of
intensity or or you know how close to
fail. That's how we measure intensity
and effort. Don't do a lot of sets to
fail on those big compound movements
back to back within the same session. It
takes a long time to recover. Now, I'm
going to add in a little bit of science.
research that I quite often quote by Dr.
Rehea and colleagues, I believe it was
2014 where they there was a meta
analysis on optimal volume for strength.
So there's optimal volume for
hypertrophy, which a lot of the
researchers mutually agree on, you know,
10 to 20 sets per muscle group per week.
But when it comes to strength, the
recommendation was
um
6 to 12 sets per movement pattern per
week. So not per body part, per movement
pattern. So 6 to 12 was kind of optimal.
So that shows when it comes to strength,
the recommendation is less total volume
than when it comes to hypertrophy. And
what's the reason? The reason is the
load that you're lifting with strength
development is a lot higher. So
typically 80% of your max and above is
what we use for strength development.
And for hypertrophy, they usually don't
go that heavy. So
strength movements like that are a lot
more demanding. And that's where we have
the extra benefit of adding in the
machine exercises that aren't as
demanding and we can accumulate more
volume and volume does contribute to
muscle mass and strength. So, bit of a
long-winded answer, but that's what it
is.
I'm going to change the barbell. So, see
that trick cuz I use a close barbell
position. So, I slide it across so that
I can take that weight off so that when
I take it off, it doesn't flip the
barbell. So, yes, I am changing the
barbell. So, this is a a weightlifting
bar. So, have a look at the blue
sticker. That's what they use in the
Olympics. Well, I think that they've
upgraded their barbells and they don't
have stickers on them anymore because
I'm going to show you. I have the
upgraded powerlifting bar, which used to
have this red sticker on it. So, these
are the old powerlifting bars. Used to
have the old the red sticker on it, but
now the new one does not. And the
difference between the two is the
powerlifting bar is thicker. It doesn't
bend as much, so it's not as whippy,
which is good when you're lifting
really, really heavy weight. It doesn't
shake as much on your back. But also,
the knurling is a lot thicker. So, when
I do a low bar squat, which is what I'm
about to do, you need to grip it into
your back. High bar squat, it's resting
on top of your trap, so it doesn't need
to be the grippy. And when I do a high
bar squat, it just feels nicer to use
the weightlifting bar. This is an easy
variation, but I'm still going to
warm up again. And I'm not warming up my
body. I don't need to increase my body
temperature. My body's warm. All I'm
doing is priming my nervous system so I
can accept the weight. Dy J.
>> Dy Jay, bring in the goods. We got some
Is that some coffee?
>> Is it for me? Before I uh jump the gun
and pretend you bought me a present, you
go, "Sorry, it wasn't for you, love."
>> No,
>> thank you. I'm doing squats.
So, I did um stiletto squat. I did a set
of three on 200, which was pretty good.
I haven't done that for a while. And now
I'm going to show the difference between
a stiletto squat and a low bar squat.
Show the strength discrepancy between
the two. So, I'll whisper to you what my
goal is, but we won't tell YouTube.
>> 10 reps.
>> Yeah.
>> Huh. At 200.
>> Yeah. Which is going to be not
enjoyable.
It'll be enjoyable packing the weights
away. Anyway,
>> merry Christmas to you.
>> We won't tell YouTube that that's what
my goal is in case I miss it. And then
we'll just build our way back up to that
same weight. And the theory, it's not a
theory, but it's going to be easier.
Three reps. Stiletto.
>> Huh?
>> 10. But then it's like you can't just
laugh at 10 reps. That's hard.
>> Yeah, I know. I know that this is going
to [__] hurt.
All right. All right. What song we got?
We got a bit of rolling from Limp
Biscuit.
>> Let's get it. Come on.
>> We're getting this.
Come on.
Oh,
I'm so happy that it's done. Do you know
what I mean? Like there's my my
satisfaction.
That's what for me my most enjoyable
part about training is is I'm going to
go home going I know I did great work
today. But
of course I can do that. Do you know
what I mean? I knew I could. The
nervousness wasn't from
whether I could do it or not. The nerves
were from this is going to hurt. Anyway,
good. So there's a low bar squat. Now,
let me just tell you something. When Tom
Plattz talks about squat is the best for
quad development, he's not squatting
that way. That's not how you build
quads.
For that exercise, here's a rule. When
it comes to building muscle, the muscle
you're targeting needs to be the
limiting factor of the movement or the
muscle that fails first. If I did more
reps on that to fail, I wouldn't be able
to tell you which muscle failed first.
My whole body was tied there. Wasn't my
legs, wasn't my hips, my back, my I
don't know what it was. My whole It was
just hard. So, that's not a good
bodybuilding exercise. So, what you want
to do to make sure the exercise is good
for bodybuilding is understand the
muscle you're targeting. And that
specific muscle needs to be the limiting
factor of the movement. And I'm going to
show you exactly why a leg press
is beneficial.
>> So many reps in reserve.
>> There was reps in reserve for sure. That
was good.
>> But thank you, bro. But I'll tell you
something. You got to condition
yourself. I haven't worked
>> hard like this for a squat in a while.
So, it's like it's not just conditioning
your muscles to go to fail. It's like
that's that's stress on my whole body.
My body has to go to work now. And you
know, you know, I'm sure if I look back
at that video, I'd be like 210 for 10
I'd be able to do, you know, and then
probably more. Like I've done more than
that for 10 for sure. My best is 300 for
10. How's that, Georgie? But that was
with knee wraps.
So with knee wraps, I get about 50
kilos. So for context, that's probably
equal to me doing 250 for 10. That's
insane.
But I was a lot bigger and stronger
then. Today I'm 97 kg. I would have
weighed about 116 kg then. So 20 kg. I'm
20 kg lighter than when I was at my peak
in strength. But either way,
yeah, those reps in reserve.
Those reps in reserve, which is what I
recommend when the goal is strength.
Okay, so skill acquisition. So, this is
another topic that I'm going to briefly
touch on. Do you train to fail or not?
Well, the higher the complexity of the
movement, the more recommended it is to
leave repetitions in reserve. So, free
weights like that. Don't take it to
fail. The beauty of a machine is you can
take it to fail because you won't break
down technique and you're usually using
lighter loads and higher reps. I mean,
that was high reps, but I don't usually
do 10 on a bike squat.
But you're usually using weights that
are not going to injure you if you go to
fail. Whereas with squats,
you know, usually if you're doing the
proper strength building rep ranges, if
you take it to fail, there's a risk of
if you're strong enough, there's a risk
of injuring yourself. So, if I was to do
five reps, I would say right now my five
rep max would probably be I don't know
two well today maybe 240 250. Recently,
I did 260 for five. So, you know, if I
took 260 to fail, that has a risk of
breaking down technique and injuring
myself. Do you know what I'm saying? But
if I was a little bit weaker, let's just
say my max was 140, which would mean my
set top set of five would be like 110.
You take that to fail, you're not going
to injure yourself. Your breakdown
technique, you might drop the bar,
you're not going to injure yourself.
Unless the barbell smacks on you, but
you know, like missing the weight, you
won't. Anyway,
we don't have to worry about that
because we got it, didn't we, Musty? We
got a set of 10. Our squat's good for
muscle development. That squat isn't.
I'm telling you how it is. I mean it
does build general muscle like where it
does make my body stronger. It does
build some legs does build some glutes,
some adductors,
some erectus spino which is the muscles
along your spine. It does but not very
well. It's just general like it's
they'll all generally grow together and
I can get bigger and bigger but a
bodybuilder doesn't want to just
generally get bigger. They want specific
muscles to get bigger that won't
specifically train my legs. And if you
look at the best powerliffters in the
world compared to the biggest
bodybuilders in the world, the legs on
bodybuilders are way bigger because they
use
exercises that target the muscle and the
muscle is the limiting factor of the
movement.
Stop recording me. Yeah, I got 10 hours
more reps in reserve. I swear during the
set, I'll tell you what I was thinking
on the last reps. I'm going to dump it
from here cuz they bump plates and you
can. It's like it's not dangerous to do
it. But I was like, I don't even want to
walk it back. This is too much work. I
don't even want to walk it back. And
then I did. I'm like, I can walk it
back. Okay, I'm not going to do leg
press like my body's had it after that.
Um, I'm just going to show you the two
different ways I do a leg press. And you
know, my opinion by now is machines have
a lot of benefits. And when it comes to
pure muscle building, I would say they
have a bit of an advantage over the free
weights. A fair bit of an advantage. But
one of the biggest things that I love
and that I factor in when I train is
your enjoyment of what you do. And when
someone just loves like Tom Plattz just
obviously loves a squat. If you love an
exercise or love doing something so
much, you apply more effort into it. And
on the flip side, if you hate something
a lot, like that's me with certain
exercises. I'm sure everyone's the same.
If you hate something a lot, you don't
apply the same amount of effort and you
never really improve. So anyway, what I
factor in is your enjoyment of the
movement that you're doing. So, if you
enjoy squats, if you come to me and say,
"I want to build as much muscle as
possible, but I also love squatting," I
would say, "Well, then you're absolutely
going to be squatting." And there's a
way of doing it, so you can build
muscle, but I would still recommend you
add some of this as well. Now, I'm going
to show you the two different ways of of
performing a leg press just like I
showed you with the squats. The first
thing that I did was a stiletto squat,
which is heels elevated, and that's a
high bar position. That allows me to
maximize knee bend. So pressing the
hamstring against the calf allows me to
target my quads better. So when I do a
quad dominant first exercise like a
stiletto squat and I want to do a leg
press or a machine exercise to
complement it, I'm going to not do a
quad dominant again. So I did quad
dominant with the squats. Now I'm going
to focus on the second squat pattern,
which is a hip dominant. Now, the way I
make this movement hip dominant is I
have my feet flat on this board and I
hold my feet um you know, relatively
high and and kind of wide. So, I'll use
the same stance as what I just did for
my squats. And
you can see I don't have a huge range of
motion here, which is why I don't love
this exercise, but anyway, that's how I
would do a hip dominant um leg press to
complement my my
stiletto squat. Good exercise, you know.
So that's what I would use to complement
my quad dominant first squat. So quad
dominant squat patterns could be a front
squat, it could be a high bar squat,
just a regular high bar squat, or it can
be what I just did, a stiletto squat.
Now on the flip side, if I was to start
with a low bar squat, which is same
stance as this, that makes it more hip
dominant. It's slightly wider and it
allows me to position myself so I push
my hips back.
So that's the first exercise of the day
would be hip dominant. I wouldn't do a
hip dominant secondary exercise. That is
called exercise redundancy. I've already
targeted those muscles. So what I like
to do with my secondary exercises is
target what I neglected in the main
movement. What did I neglect in the low
bar squats is quadriceps. How do I
position my feet to target quadriceps?
So, the same as what I did with my
stiletto squat, which is feet close and
kind of like on the leg press, it's low.
Um, but what I'm doing here is I'm
putting my feet in a way where I can
maximize knee bend, right? So, this is
quad dominant.
Okay. So, they're two different leg uh
press variations. I don't want to stand
up because my head's going to get out of
the camera. Well, you're on there now.
Okay. I'll talk to this guy over here.
So, that's two different leg press
variations that are both equally as
good, but they target two very different
muscle groups. You're on a program or a
structure. If you do a stiletto squat to
start your session, one to three top
sets and then do one to three back down
sets on a or sorry, secondary accessory
exercises on a hip dominant leg press or
a hack squat or whatever the squat
pattern. If you start with a low bar
squat, great way to start a a session,
even if your goal is to build muscle,
it's not the best muscle building
exercise, but it's enjoyable and it
builds some muscle. complement it with
that second leg press pattern that I
just did which is a quad dominant
pushing through the toes allowing full
knee bend. That's a lot of talking, a
lot of information. I hope you learned
something and I hope you understand my
opinion is if ever you get the choice to
choose one or the other whenever it
comes to you know logical explanations
of exercises like machines or free
weights high bar or low bar belt versus
non-bted arch bench press versus
non-arch bench press the answer is a
combination of both you don't have to
choose one or the other so is Tom Plats
right? Yes he is. Then you hear people
that say squats are bad for legs. Are
they right? Well, if you have a look at
the way they squat, they probably don't
they probably lean further forward in
their squat, you know, fold at the hips
because they have proportions that force
them to not be able to get that full
knee bend. Anyway, hope you learned
something. Hope you enjoyed. I'm out of
here.
>> Yeah.
>> People want to train with you.
>> If people want to train with me, then
you know what you should do is put a
link in the description. That's what I
do. I'm a coach. I'm a coach. And of
course, that's what I do for a living.
So, you can contact me anytime. Follow
me on Instagram in at Australian
Strength Coach. Click the link and uh
reach out and we can get someone to
contact you if you want to be coached by
me. If you don't want to be coached by
me, just keep watching my stuff and just
keep on learning. I teach all the good
stuff. But some people just need that
extra push and that's what I'm here for.
Thank you, Bella.